
Simplicity is prerequisite for reliability.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
The computing scientist’s main challenge is not to get confused by the complexities of his own making.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
If debugging is the process of removing software bugs, then programming must be the process of putting them in.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
The tools we use have a profound and devious influence on our thinking habits, and therefore on our thinking abilities.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.|Fred Brooks
Sometimes there is a silver bullet for boosting software engineering productivity. But you need to shoot the right person.|Michael Stal
Nine women can't make a baby in one month.|Fred Brooks
Deleted code is debugged code.|Jeff Sickel
When in doubt, use brute force.|Ken Thompson
One of my most productive days was throwing away 1,000 lines of code.|Ken Thompson
One accurate measurement is worth more than a thousand expert opinions.|Grace Hopper
What one programmer can do in one month, two programmers can do in two months.|Fred Brooks
Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live.|Rick Osborne
A program that produces incorrect results twice as fast is infinitely slower.|John Ousterhout
I have yet to see any problem, however complicated, which when looked at in the right way, did not become more complicated.|Poul Anderson
Cleaning code does NOT take time. NOT cleaning code does take time.|Robert C. Martin
Beauty is more important in computing than anywhere else in technology because software is so complicated. Beauty is the ultimate defense against complexity.|David Gelernter
Walking on water and developing software from a specification are easy if both are frozen.|Edward V. Berard
Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it.|Brian Kernighan
Controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.|Brian Kernighan
Debugging time increases as a square of the program’s size.|Chris Wenham
Code never lies, comments sometimes do.|Ron Jeffries
Some problems are so complex that you have to be highly intelligent and well informed just to be undecided about them.|Laurence J. Peter
I have no special talent. I am only passionately curious.|Albert Einstein
The proper use of comments is to compensate for our failure to express ourself in code.|Robert C. Martin
When there is no type hierarchy you don’t have to manage the type hierarchy.|Rob Pike
Everybody should learn to program a computer, because it teaches you how to think.|Steve Jobs
Simplicity is hard to build, easy to use, and hard to charge for. Complexity is easy to build, hard to use, and easy to charge for.|Chris Sacca
Measuring programming progress by lines of code is like measuring aircraft building progress by weight.|Bill Gates
More computing sins are committed in the name of efficiency (without necessarily achieving it) than for any other single reason - including blind stupidity.|William Wulf
Testing can be a very effective way to show the presence of bugs, but it is hopelessly inadequate for showing their absence.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
Imagination is more important than knowledge.|Albert Einstein
When I am working on a problem I never think about beauty. I think only how to solve the problem. But when I have finished, if the solution is not beautiful, I know it is wrong.|Buckminster Fuller
Good code is short, simple, and symmetrical - the challenge is figuring out how to get there.|Sean Parent
Once you stop learning you start dying.|Albert Einstein
Over half of the time you spend working on a project is spent thinking, and no tool, no matter how advanced, can think for you.|Richard P. Gabriel
Once a new technology starts rolling, if you’re not part of the steamroller, you’re part of the road.|Stewart Brand
The most amazing achievement of the computer software industry is its continuing cancellation of the steady and staggering gains made by the computer hardware industry.|Henry Petroski
I am never satisfied until I have said as much as possible in a few words, and writing briefly takes far more time than writing at length.|Carl Friedrich Gauss
There are only two kinds of languages: the ones people complain about and the ones nobody uses.|Bjarne Stroustrup
Unix is simple. It just takes a genius to understand its simplicity.|Dennis Ritchie
A language that doesn’t have everything is actually easier to program in than some that do.|Dennis Ritchie
What I cannot build, I do not understand.|Richard Feynman
Any intelligent fool can make things bigger, more complex, and more violent. It takes a touch of genius – and a lot of courage – to move in the opposite direction.|Albert Einstein
Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand.|Martin Fowler
A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it.|Albert Einstein
The most important single aspect of software development is to be clear about what you are trying to build.|Bjarne Stroustrup
The only sin is to make a choice without knowing you are making one.|Jonathan Shewchuk
So much complexity in software comes from trying to make one thing do two things.|Ryan Singer
Hofstadter's Law: It always takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account Hofstadter's Law.|P. J. Plauger
First, solve the problem. Then, write the code.|John Johnson
A good programmer is someone who looks both ways before crossing a one-way street.|Doug Linder
Compatibility means deliberately repeating other people’s mistakes.|David Wheeler (computer scientist)
There are two major products that come out of Berkeley: LSD and UNIX. We don't believe this to be a coincidence.|Jeremy S. Anderson
When in doubt, leave it out.|Joshua Bloch
Never memorize something that you can look up.|Albert Einstein
Mathematicians stand on each others' shoulders and computer scientists stand on each others' toes.|Richard Hamming
An organisation that treats its programmers as morons will soon have programmers that are willing and able to act like morons only.|Bjarne Stroustrup
The button is working, only, it cannot be seen.|Anonymous
Don't worry about anything. Just do what you can and be the best you can be.|Douglas Crockford
The business of software building isn't really high-tech at all. It's most of all a business of talking to each other and writing things down.|Tom DeMarco
In programming the hard part isn’t solving problems, but deciding what problems to solve.|Paul Graham (programmer)
The manager's function is not to make people work, but to make it possible for people to work.|Tom DeMarco
People under pressure don’t work better; they just work faster.|Tom DeMarco
My main conclusion after spending ten years of my life working on the TEX project is that software is hard. It’s harder than anything else I’ve ever had to do.|Donald Knuth
Science is what we understand well enough to explain to a computer. Art is everything else we do.|Donald Knuth
Less code equals less bugs.|Kevlin Henney
As soon as an Analytical Engine exists, it will necessarily guide the future course of science.|Charles Babbage
The errors which arise from the absence of facts are far more numerous and more durable than those which result from unsound reasoning respecting true data.|Charles Babbage
The use of COBOL cripples the mind; its teaching should, therefore, be regarded as a criminal offense.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
A picture may be worth a thousand words, a formula is worth a thousand pictures.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
Young man, in mathematics you don't understand things. You just get used to them.|John von Neumann
By understanding a machine-oriented language, the programmer will tend to use a much more efficient method; it is much closer to reality.|Donald Knuth
Within C++, there is a much smaller and cleaner language struggling to get out.|Bjarne Stroustrup
Anybody who comes to you and says he has a perfect language is either naïve or a salesman.|Bjarne Stroustrup
A man provided with paper, pencil, and rubber, and subject to strict discipline, is in effect a universal machine.|Alan Turing
The idea behind digital computers may be explained by saying that these machines are intended to carry out any operations which could be done by a human computer.|Alan Turing
Machines take me by surprise with great frequency.|Alan Turing
Maybe "just one little global variable" isn't too unmanageable, but that style leads to code that is useless except to its original programmer.|Bjarne Stroustrup
I'm doing a free operating system (just a hobby, won't be big and professional like GNU).|Linus Torvalds
If you need more than 3 levels of indentation, you're screwed anyway, and should fix your program.|Linus Torvalds
An infinite number of monkeys typing into GNU Emacs would never make a good program.|Linus Torvalds
If Microsoft ever does applications for Linux it means I've won.|Linus Torvalds
Really, I'm not out to destroy Microsoft. That will just be a completely unintentional side effect.|Linus Torvalds
Talk is cheap. Show me the code.|Linus Torvalds
The first 90 percent of the code accounts for the first 90 percent of the development time. The remaining 10 percent of the code accounts for the other 90 percent of the development time.|Tom Cargill
I'm not a great programmer; I'm just a good programmer with great habits.|Kent Beck
There's only one trick in software, and that is using a piece of software that's already been written.|Bill Gates
You can't just ask customers what they want and then try to give that to them. By the time you get it built, they'll want something new.|Steve Jobs
What a computer is to me is it's the most remarkable tool that we have ever come up with. It's the equivalent of a bicycle for our minds.|Steve Jobs
A lot of companies hire people to tell them what to do. We hire people to tell us what to do.|Steve Jobs
Computers themselves can do only stupidly straightforward things. The reason they are so useful is that they do these things at an incredibly high speed.|Marijn Haverbeke
There are many terrible mistakes to make in program design, so go ahead and make them so that you understand them better.|Marijn Haverbeke
People think that computer science is the art of geniuses but the actual reality is the opposite, just many people doing things that build on each other, like a wall of mini stones.|Donald Knuth
Professionalism has no place in art, and hacking is art. Software Engineering might be science; but that's not what I do. I'm a hacker, not an engineer.|Jamie Zawinski
When you feel the need to write a comment, first try to refactor the code so that any comment becomes superfluous.|Kent Beck
There are few things more frustrating or time wasting than debugging. Wouldn't it be a hell of a lot quicker if we just didn't create the bugs in the first place?|Martin Fowler
With testing, I know straight away when I added a bug. That lets me fix the bug immediately, before it can crawl off and hide.|Martin Fowler
I think one of the most valuable rules is avoid duplication.|Martin Fowler
Often designers do complicated things that improve the capacity on a particular hardware platform when it might actually be cheaper to buy more hardware.|Martin Fowler
Story in a game is like a story in a porn movie. It's expected to be there, but it's not that important.|John Carmack
The best thing software can be is easy, but the way to do this is to get the defaults right, not to limit users' choices.|Paul Graham (programmer)
The most important thing is to be able to think what you want, not to say what you want.|Paul Graham (programmer)
It's not so important what you work on, so long as you're not wasting your time.|Paul Graham (programmer)
The top 5% of programmers probably write 99% of the good software.|Paul Graham (programmer)
There are few sources of energy so powerful as a procrastinating grad student.|Paul Graham (programmer)
Your most unhappy customers are your greatest source of learning.|Bill Gates
Putting a new feature into a program is important, but refactoring so new features can be added in the future is equally important.|Ward Cunningham
A new idea comes suddenly and in a rather intuitive way. But intuition is nothing but the outcome of earlier intellectual experience.|Albert Einstein
The limits of my language mean the limits of my world.|Ludwig Wittgenstein
If you have a procedure with 10 parameters, you probably missed some.|Alan Perlis
That language is an instrument of human reason, and not merely a medium for the expression of thought, is a truth generally admitted.|George Boole
A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming, is not worth knowing.|Alan Perlis
Simplicity does not precede complexity, but follows it.|Alan Perlis
The best book on programming for the layman is Alice in Wonderland, but that's because it's the best book on anything for the layman.|Alan Perlis
Dealing with failure is easy: Work hard to improve.|Alan Perlis
A programming language is low level when its programs require attention to the irrelevant.|Alan Perlis
Computer programs are the most intricate, delicately balanced and finely interwoven of all the products of human industry to date.|James Gleick
The effective exploitation of his powers of abstraction must be regarded as one of the most vital activities of a competent programmer.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
Fools ignore complexity. Pragmatists suffer it. Some can avoid it. Geniuses remove it.|Alan Perlis
When we don’t understand a process, we fall into magical thinking about results.|Jef Raskin
Low-level programming is good for the programmer’s soul.|John Carmack
Simplicity and elegance are unpopular because they require hard work and discipline to achieve and education to be appreciated.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
A user interface should be so simple that a beginner in an emergency can understand it within 10 seconds.|Ted Nelson
Every program has (at least) two purposes: the one for which it was written and another for which it wasn't.|Alan Perlis
In man-machine symbiosis, it is man who must adjust: The machines can't.|Alan Perlis
One man's constant is another man's variable.|Alan Perlis
Success is a lousy teacher. It seduces smart people into thinking they can't lose.|Bill Gates
It is easier to change the specification to fit the program than vice versa.|Alan Perlis
If we’d asked the customers what they wanted, they would have said “faster horses”.|Henry Ford
I have found that the reason a lot of people are interested in artificial intelligence is the same reason a lot of people are interested in artificial limbs: they are missing one.|David Parnas
A distributed system is one in which the failure of a computer you didn’t even know existed can render your own computer unusable.|Leslie Lamport
It’s all talk until the code runs.|Ward Cunningham
In theory, there is no difference between theory and practice. But, in practice, there is.|Jan L. A. van de Snepscheut
We build our computer systems the way we build our cities: over time, without a plan, on top of ruins.|Ellen Ullman
The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users.|Eric S. Raymond
Good software, like good wine, takes time.|Joel Spolsky
Debugging is like being the detective in a crime movie where you are also the murderer.|Filipe Fortes
What we wanted to preserve was not just a good environment in which to do programming, but a system around which fellowship could form.|Dennis Ritchie
Once the computers got control, we might never get it back.|Marvin Minsky
A computer shall not waste your time or require you to do more work than is strictly necessary.|Jef Raskin
Of the many forms of false culture, a premature converse with abstractions is perhaps the most likely to prove fatal to the growth of a masculine vigour of intellect.|George Boole
No matter how correct a mathematical theorem may appear to be, one ought never to be satisfied that there was not something imperfect about it until it also gives the impression of being beautiful.|George Boole
The Analytical Engine does not occupy common ground with mere 'calculating machines.' It holds a position wholly its own, and the considerations it suggests are more interesting in their nature.|Ada Lovelace
The science of operations, as derived from mathematics more especially, is a science of itself, and has its own abstract truth and value.|Ada Lovelace
We may say most aptly that the Analytical Engine weaves algebraical patterns just as the Jacquard loom weaves flowers and leaves.|Ada Lovelace
Any one who considers arithmetical methods of producing random digits is, of course, in a state of sin. For, as has been pointed out several times, there is no such thing as a random number.|John von Neumann
A large part of mathematics which becomes useful developed with absolutely no desire to be useful, and in a situation where nobody could possibly know in what area it would become useful.|John von Neumann
Software engineering is the part of computer science which is too difficult for the computer scientist.|Friedrich Bauer
Good people with a good process will outperform good people with no process every time.|Grady Booch
The entire history of software engineering is that of the rise in levels of abstraction.|Grady Booch
Most software today is very much like an Egyptian pyramid with millions of bricks piled on top of each other, with no structural integrity, but just done by brute force and thousands of slaves.|Alan Kay
Is studying computer science the best way to prepare to be a programmer? No. the best way to prepare is to write programs, and to study great programs that other people have written.|Bill Gates
The purpose of computing is insight, not numbers.|Richard Hamming
When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, they are almost certainly right. When they state that something is impossible, they are very probably wrong.|Arthur C. Clarke
Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.|Arthur C. Clarke
While much attention has been focused on high-level software architectural patterns, what is, in effect, the de-facto standard software architecture is seldom discussed: the Big Ball of Mud.|Joseph Yoder (computer scientist)
All too many of our software systems are, architecturally, little more than shantytowns.|Joseph Yoder (computer scientist)
Managing a large project is a qualitatively different problem from managing a small one, just as leading a division of infantry into battle is different from commanding a small special forces team.|Joseph Yoder (computer scientist)
Sadly, architecture has been undervalued for so long that many engineers regard life with a Big Ball of Mud as normal.|Joseph Yoder (computer scientist)
The real problem with throwaway code comes when it isn't thrown away.|Joseph Yoder (computer scientist)
Sometimes it’s just easier to throw a system away, and start over.|Joseph Yoder (computer scientist)
I invented the term 'Object-Oriented', and I can tell you I did not have C++ in mind.|Alan Kay
Most good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program.|Linus Torvalds
Educators, generals, dieticians, psychologists, and parents program. Armies, students, and some societies are programmed.|Alan Perlis
To iterate is human, to recurse divine.|L. Peter Deutsch
For all its power, the computer is a harsh taskmaster. Its programs must be correct, and what we wish to say must be said accurately in every detail.|Alan Perlis
When program developers are not territorial about their code and encourage others to look for bugs and potential improvements, progress speeds up dramatically.|Gerald Weinberg
The best thing about a boolean is even if you are wrong, you are only off by a bit.|Anonymous
When debugging, novices insert corrective code; experts remove defective code.|Richard E. Pattis
It turns out that style matters in programming for the same reason that it matters in writing. It makes for better reading.|Douglas Crockford
Good architecture is necessary to give programs enough structure to be able to grow large without collapsing into a puddle of confusion.|Douglas Crockford
In JavaScript, there is a beautiful, elegant, highly expressive language that is buried under a steaming pile of good intentions and blunders.|Douglas Crockford
Software is usually expected to be modified over the course of its productive life. The process of converting one correct program into a different correct program is extremely challenging.|Douglas Crockford
You can have the project: Done On Time. Done On Budget. Done Properly - Pick two.|Anonymous
Never trust a computer you can’t throw out a window.|Steve Wozniak
The best way to predict the future is to invent it.|Alan Kay
If you can get today’s work done today, but you do it in such a way that you can’t possibly get tomorrow’s work done tomorrow, then you lose.|Martin Fowler
Codes are a puzzle. A game, just like any other game.|Alan Turing
Documentation is a love letter that you write to your future self.|Damian Conway
Life is too short to run proprietary software.|Bdale Garbee
W​henever I have to think to understand what the code is doing, I ask myself if I can refactor the code to make that understanding more immediately apparent.|Martin Fowler
If you give someone a program, you will frustrate them for a day; if you teach them how to program, you will frustrate them for a lifetime.|David Leinweber
The code you write makes you a programmer. The code you delete makes you a good one. The code you don't have to write makes you a great one.|Mario Fusco
First do it, then do it right, then do it better.|Addy Osmani
First learn computer science and all the theory. Next develop a programming style. Then forget all that and just hack.|George Carrette
The only way to learn a new programming language is by writing programs in it.|Dennis Ritchie
An evolving system increases its complexity unless work is done to reduce it.|Manny Lehman (computer scientist)
No matter how slow you are writing clean code, you will always be slower if you make a mess.|Robert C. Martin
Fancy algorithms are slow when n is small, and n is usually small.|Rob Pike
The only difference between a FA [finite automata] and a TM [Turing machine] is that the TM, unlike the FA, has paper and pencil. Think about it. It tells you something about the power of writing.|Manuel Blum
Just because you've implemented something doesn't mean you understand it.|Brian Cantwell Smith
That hardly ever happens is another way of saying 'it happens'.|Douglas Crockford
Beware of bugs in the above code; I have only proved it correct, not tried it.|Donald Knuth
A display connected to a digital computer gives us a chance to gain familiarity with concepts not realizable in the physical world. It is a looking glass into a mathematical wonderland.|Ivan Sutherland
The cheapest, fastest, and most reliable components are those that aren’t there.|Gordon Bell
In order to understand recursion, one must first understand recursion.|Anonymous
The hardest part of design is keeping features out.|Don Norman
Premature abstraction is as bad as premature optimization.|Luciano Ramalho
Much of the essence of building a program is in fact the debugging of the specification.|Fred Brooks
Any product that needs a manual to work is broken.|Elon Musk
The act of describing a program in unambiguous detail and the act of programming are one and the same.|Kevlin Henney
I think you should always bear in mind that entropy is not on your side.|Elon Musk
The path to the CEO's office should not be through the CFO's office, and it should not be through the marketing department. It needs to be through engineering and design.|Elon Musk
AI is a fundamental risk to the existence of human civilization.|Elon Musk
The main activity of programming is not the origination of new independent programs, but in the integration, modification, and explanation of existing ones.|Terry Winograd
Cool URIs don't change.|Tim Berners-Lee
I don't believe in the sort of eureka moment idea. I think it's a myth. I'm very suspicious that actually Archimedes had been thinking about that problem for a long time.|Tim Berners-Lee
When I invented the web, I didn't have to ask anyone's permission.|Tim Berners-Lee
We need to be super careful with AI. Potentially more dangerous than nukes.|Elon Musk
I invented the Web just because I needed it, really, because it was so frustrating that it didn't exit.|Tim Berners-Lee
To be a hacker - when I use the term - is somebody who is creative and does wonderful things.|Tim Berners-Lee
The Domain Name Server (DNS) is the Achilles heel of the Web.|Tim Berners-Lee
Whenever logical processes of thought are employed, there is an opportunity for the machine.|Vannevar Bush
Like a financial debt, the technical debt incurs interest payments, which come in the form of the extra effort that we have to do in future development because of the quick and dirty design choice.|Martin Fowler
What's very important from my point of view is that there is one web. Anyone that tries to chop it into two will find that their piece looks very boring.|Tim Berners-Lee
Thus it is observable that the buildings which a single architect has planned and executed, are generally more elegant and commodious than those which several have attempted to improve.|René Descartes
Computers are the most complex objects we human beings have ever created, but in a fundamental sense they are remarkably simple.|Danny Hillis
The magic of a computer lies in its ability to become almost anything you can imagine, as long as you can explain exactly what that is.|Danny Hillis
A skilled programmer is like a poet who can put into words those ideas that others find inexpressible.|Danny Hillis
Every computer language has its Shakespeares, and it is a joy to read their code. A well-written computer program possesses style, finesse, even humor—and a clarity that rivals the best prose.|Danny Hillis
The class of problems that are computable by a digital computer apparently includes every problem that is computable by any kind of device.|Danny Hillis
Human beings are not accustomed to being perfect, and few areas of human activity demand it. Adjusting to the requirement for perfection is, I think, the most difficult part of learning to program.|Fred Brooks
Because of optimism, we usually expect the number of bugs to be smaller than it turns out to be. Therefore testing is usually the most mis-scheduled part of programming.|Fred Brooks
False scheduling to match the patron's desired date is much more common in our discipline than elsewhere in engineering.|Fred Brooks
The separation of architectural effort from implementation is a very powerful way of getting conceptual integrity on very large projects.|Fred Brooks
The general tendency is to over-design the second system, using all the ideas and frills that were cautiously sidetracked on the first one.|Fred Brooks
Coding is "90 percent finished" for half of the total coding time. Debugging is "99 percent complete" most of the time.|Fred Brooks
The complexity of software is an essential property, not an accidental one. Hence descriptions of a software entity that abstract away its complexity often abstract away its essence.|Fred Brooks
A programming systems product takes about nine times as much effort as the component programs written separately for private use.|Fred Brooks
My rule of thumb is 1/3 of the schedule for design, 1/6 for coding, 1/4 for component testing, and 1/4 for system testing.|Fred Brooks
Because we are uncertain about our scheduling estimates, we often lack the courage to defend them stubbornly against management and customer pressure.|Fred Brooks
Adding people to a software project increases the total effort necessary in three ways: the work and disruption of repartitioning itself, training the new people, and added intercommunication.|Fred Brooks
Very good professional programmers are ten times as productive as poor ones, at same training and two-year experience level.|Fred Brooks
Various studies indicate that the optimal team size is between 2 and 5, with 3 being the mode. With more than 5 team members, team management begins to dominate the work.|Daniel T. Barry
I think there is a world market for maybe five
computers.|Thomas J. Watson
The beginning of wisdom for a programmer is to recognize the difference between getting his program to work and getting it right.|Michael A. Jackson
Two things are known about requirements:
1. They will change!
2. They will be misunderstood!|Michael A. Jackson
There is never enough time to do it right, but there is always enough time to fix it or to do it over.|Daniel T. Barry
The more code you have, the more places there are for bugs to hide.|Rich Skrenta
If builders built houses the way programmers built programs, the first woodpecker to come along would destroy civilization.|Gerald Weinberg
The techniques of artificial intelligence are to the mind what bureaucracy is to human social interaction.|Terry Winograd
Code is expensive to change, but design is cheaper to change, and requirements are even cheaper to change.|Daniel T. Barry
The cost to repair an error goes up dramatically as project moves towards completion and beyond.|Daniel T. Barry
For most software, efficiency just does not matter.|Daniel T. Barry
The best way to know that you have found the last bug is never to find the first bug.|Harlan Mills
The only way for errors to occur in a program is by being put there by the author. No other mechanisms are known.|Harlan Mills
I can build a reliable system with thousands of bugs, if you let me choose my bugs carefully.|David Parnas
Ed Adams of IBM found that 80% of the reliability problems are caused by only 2% of the defects.|Daniel T. Barry
Hardware is the part you can replace. Software is the part you have to keep, because it’s so expensive and nobody understands it any more.|Jim Horning
Any technological or managerial scheme to force documentation can be subverted by unwilling programmers.|Daniel T. Barry
Good judgement comes from experience. Experience comes from bad judgement.|Jim Horning
Machines as simple as thermostats can be said to have beliefs.|John McCarthy (computer scientist)
I figure that since proprietary software developers use copyright to stop us from sharing, we cooperators can use copyright to give other cooperators an advantage of their own: they can use our code.|Richard Stallman
Programming is programming. If you get good at programming, it doesn't matter which language you learned it in, because you'll be able to do programming in any language.|Richard Stallman
Typing is no substitute for thinking.|Richard Hamming
A programmer who subconsciously views himself as an artist will enjoy what he does and will do it better.|Donald Knuth
Really good programs live forever.|Charles Simonyi
In science if you know what you are doing you should not be doing it. In engineering if you do not know what you are doing you should not be doing it.|Richard Hamming
As with most projects, the last two percent takes fifty percent of the time.|John Warnock
It's fun to sit at a terminal and let the code flow. It sounds strange, but it just comes out my brain; once I'm started, I don't have to think about it.|Gary Kildall
If you ever talk to a great programmer, you'll find he knows his tools like an artist knows his paintbrushes.|Bill Gates
Our goals are very simple. We're going to create the software that puts a computer on every desk and in every home.|Bill Gates
The most important part of writing a program is designing the data structures.|Dan Bricklin
Ideas don't disappear. They change form, they merge with other ideas.|Bob Frankston
I care not only what the code says but how it looks.|Peter Roizen
Programming is the ultimate field for someone who likes to tinker.|Ray Ozzie
Programming can be addictive.|Bob Carr
From an artistic standpoint, the best software comes from the realm of intuition.|Bob Carr
Then Apple went public toward the end of 1980. All of a sudden, all these people I was working with were millionaires.|Andy Hertzfeld
I'm interested in creating images that communicate with people.|Toru Iwatani
I think the best way to supervise is by personal example and by frequent code reviews.|Charles Simonyi
There are some basic techniques to control complexity. Fundamentally, I divide and conquer, break things down, and try to write reasonably precise descriptions of what each piece is supposed to do.|Butler Lampson
The efficiency of the code decreases with an increase in the number of people working on the program. The most efficient programs are written by a single person.|Charles Simonyi
I'll bet you that from ten feet away I can tell if a program is bad. I might not guarantee that it is good, but if it looks bad from ten feet, I can guarantee you that it wasn't written with care.|Charles Simonyi
Nobody knows how to build really complicated hardware systems, so designing hardware tends to be simpler. Software is much more complicated.|Butler Lampson
A beautiful program is like a beautiful theorem: It does the job elegantly.|Butler Lampson
To be successful, you want to surround yourself with very talented folks whose skills blend very well. That’s the secret of success.|John Warnock
Don’t go into a two-year development with nothing coming out in the middle. Have something come out every two months, so you can evaluate, regroup, and restart.|John Warnock
If you learn how to solve problems, you can go through life and do pretty well.|Gary Kildall
A great programmer thinks about the program on a constant basis, whether driving or eating. That method takes an incredible amount of mental energy.|Bill Gates
The really great programs I've written have all been ones that I have thought about for a huge amount of time before I ever wrote them.|Bill Gates
The fundamental problem with program maintenance is that fixing a defect has a substantial (20-50 percent) chance of introducing another. So the whole process is two steps forward and one step back.|Fred Brooks
Really care about the tools you use because they are what make you your best.|Addy Osmani
What I like about programming is that it really helps you think about how we communicate, how we think, how logic works, how creative arts work.|Michael Hawley
Part of what makes programming difficult is most of the time we’re doing stuff we’ve never done before.|Douglas Crockford
I think of myself as a writer. Sometimes I write in English and sometimes I write in JavaScript.|Douglas Crockford
People should be able to speak and breathe programs just like they talk now.|Jaron Lanier
If you start removing things, if you get to the point where if you were to remove anything more it would not work any more — at this point it is beautiful.|Joe Armstrong (programmer)
Humanity is acquiring all the right technology for all the wrong reasons.|Buckminster Fuller
I characterize functional programming as a radical and elegant attack on the whole enterprise of writing programs.|Simon Peyton Jones
Every now and then I feel a temptation to design a programming language but then I just lie down until it goes away.|L. Peter Deutsch
Instead of the progression of tens, I have for many years used the simplest progression of all, which proceeds by twos, having found that it is useful for the perfection of the science of numbers.|Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
I’ve never been a lover of existing code. Code by itself almost rots and it’s gotta be rewritten. Even when nothing has changed, for some reason it rots.|Ken Thompson
I’ll throw away code as soon I want to add something to it and I get the feeling that what I have to do to add it is too hard.|Ken Thompson
The problem is that coding isn’t fun if all you can do is call things out of a library, if you can’t write the library yourself.|Donald Knuth
I make mistakes because I’m always operating at my limit. If I only stay in comfortable territory all the time, that’s not so much fun.|Donald Knuth
The more varieties of different kinds of notations are still useful — don’t only read the people who code like you.|Donald Knuth
The good news about computers is that they do what you tell them to do. The bad news is that they do what you tell them to do.|Ted Nelson
Making things easy is hard.|Ted Nelson
You should name a variable using the same care with which you name a first-born child.|Jim Coplien
The ratio of time spent reading versus writing is well over 10 to 1. We are constantly reading old code as part of the effort to write new code.|Robert C. Martin
There's nothing more permanent than a temporary hack.|Kyle Simpson
As numbers are reduced to the simplest principles, like 0 and 1, a wonderful order is apparent throughout.|Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
They were saying computers deal with numbers. This was absolutely nonsense. Computers deal with arbitrary information of any kind.|Ted Nelson
Right now you are a prisoner of each application you use. You have only the options that were given you by the developer of that application.|Ted Nelson
Complexity kills. It sucks the life out of developers, it makes products difficult to plan, build and test, it introduces security challenges and it causes end-user and administrator frustration.|Ray Ozzie
Software gets slower faster than hardware gets faster.|Niklaus Wirth
Are you quite sure that all those bells and whistles, all those wonderful facilities of your so called powerful programming languages, belong to the solution set rather than the problem set?|Edsger W. Dijkstra
If people do not believe that mathematics is simple, it is only because they do not realize how complicated life is.|John von Neumann
C makes it easy to shoot yourself in the foot; C++ makes it harder, but when you do it blows your whole leg off.|Bjarne Stroustrup
Object-oriented design is the roman numerals of computing.|Rob Pike
It is hard to think that a $2 billion company with 4,300-plus people couldn't compete with six people in blue jeans.|Steve Jobs
Some people, when confronted with a problem, think ‘I know, I’ll use regular expressions.’ Now they have two problems.|Jamie Zawinski
Sometimes we do get taken by surprise. For example, when the Internet came along, we had it as a fifth or sixth priority.|Bill Gates
It was a turning point in my programming career when I realized that I didn't have to win every argument.|Ward Cunningham
And programming computers was so fascinating. You create your own little universe, and then it does what you tell it to do.|Vint Cerf
SQL, Lisp, and Haskell are the only programming languages that I've seen where one spends more time thinking than typing.|Philip Greenspun
The most effective debugging tool is still careful thought, coupled with judiciously placed print statements.|Brian Kernighan
Computer languages of the future will be more concerned with goals and less with procedures specified by the programmer.|Marvin Minsky
A computer would deserve to be called intelligent if it could deceive a human into believing that it was human.|Alan Turing
You might not think that programmers are artists, but programming is an extremely creative profession. It's logic-based creativity.|John Romero
JavaScript is the only language that I'm aware of that people feel they don't need to learn before they start using it.|Douglas Crockford
Be humble, communicate clearly, and respect others. It costs nothing to be kind, but the impact is priceless.|Addy Osmani
Telling a programmer there's already a library to do X is like telling a songwriter there's already a song about love.|Pete Cordell
Should array indices start at 0 or 1? My compromise of 0.5 was rejected without, I thought, proper consideration.|Stan Kelly-Bootle
The purpose of abstraction is not to be vague, but to create a new semantic level in which one can be absolutely precise.|Edsger W. Dijkstra
There certainly will be job disruption. Because what's going to happen is robots will be able to do everything better than us.|Elon Musk
Sometimes, the elegant implementation is a function. Not a method. Not a class. Not a framework. Just a function.|John Carmack
Artificial intelligence is the science of making machines do things that would require intelligence if done by men.|Marvin Minsky
One must assume that there will be lots of bugs, and plan an orderly procedure for snaking them out.|Fred Brooks
The very best technology never has as much impact as girlfriend or boyfriend trouble.|Tom DeMarco
Maintenance cost is strongly affected by the number of users. More users find more bugs.|Fred Brooks
Most errors are introduced during requirements specification!|Daniel T. Barry
Programming is similar to a game of golf. The point is not getting the ball in the hole but how many strokes it takes.|Harlan Mills
A number of studies have shown testing not very effective at finding bugs.|Daniel T. Barry
Programming is at least as difficult as developing a mathematical theory.|Daniel T. Barry
Everything should be made as simple as possible. But to do that you have to master complexity.|Butler Lampson
If I had followed my heart instead of advice, dBASE would be much closer to perfection today.|Wayne Ratliff
Programming is a little bit like the army. Now that I'm out, it's neat to have had the experience.|Wayne Ratliff
I don't like using any tools or programs I didn't write myself or that I don't have some control over.|Jonathan Sachs
If you cannot explain a program to yourself, the chance of the
computer getting it right is pretty small.|Bob Frankston
I don't comment on the code itself because I feel that properly written code is very much self-documented.|Gary Kildall
When a program is clean and neat, nicely structured, and consistent, it can be beautiful.|Gary Kildall
JavaScript, purely by accident, has become the most popular programming language in the world.|Douglas Crockford
Software is a discipline of detail, and that is a deep, horrendous fundamental problem with software.|L. Peter Deutsch
Even in the games of children there are things to interest the greatest mathematician.|Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz